[Music]
well here's something I've needed for a
while
9 brain exercises to strengthen your
mind like you can do mind push-ups who
would have thought that special
gymnastics involving your fingers could
improve your memory sharpen your
attention and focus and boost your brain
health before you get to know everything
about these exercises hit the subscribe
button and turn on notifications to get
to the bright side of life
these gymnastics for the brain were
developed by Yoshi Rose Tsutsumi a
Japanese researcher and author of the
book finger self massage yo she wrote
Tsutsumi starting from scratch the set
of simple exercises described in this
work focuses on improving general
well-being and supporting brain health
if you repeat this short finger workout
on a daily basis the stimulation
traveling from your fingers directly to
your brain will help to rejuvenate your
body and make your brain more efficient
each fingertip has more than 3000 mekka
no receptors which act as a highway to
your brain particularly its sensory
cortex when you do a finger workout you
improve synapse connections and fire
neurons which is great for the
functioning of your brain as with any
proper workout this set also has some
warm-up exercises exercise number 1
inhale deeply through your nose bend
your elbows and lift your fingers to eye
level
your palms should be facing each other
and your fingers should touch breathe
out through your mouth and lower your
right hand a bit at the same time you
should bend the fingers of your left
hand and use them to cover the finger
tips of your right hand it should look
like you're trying to catch a hand
that's sliding down
now breathe through your nose and
straighten the fingers on your left hand
simultaneously move the palm of your
right hand up and cover the fingertips
on your left hand with the bent fingers
of your right hand repeat this exercise
15 times your breathing should be a bit
faster than usual the most important
thing is to do the exercise smoothly and
not to hurry
try not to lower your hands and
coordinate your movements and breathing
exercise number two hold your hands in
front of your chest your palms should be
facing each other in touching your
wrists should be pressed together as
well there shouldn't be any strain and
you should feel comfortable breathe in
and out several times as you normally do
this will allow you to concentrate
before the upcoming rapid movements
while staying in the same position
quickly separate your right and left
wrists simultaneously spread your
fingers wide only the tips of your
fingers should be touching after that
bring your palms back together and take
a quick breath through your mouth your
fingers should still be splayed out
separate your palms again in such a way
that only your fingertips touch and
breathe out at the same time while
pressing your fingertips together turn
your wrists so that your middle fingers
are directed at your chest repeat the
same movements in this position repeat
each movement at least 10 times your
breathing should be rhythmical and your
fingers should be spread as much as
possible exercise number three while
breathing in and out rhythmically as you
do in your everyday life lift your arms
bent at the elbows to your mouth your
palms should be facing you and your
pinky fingers should be touching exhale
completely and don't breathe for a
couple of seconds after that inhale
through
your nose while bending all your fingers
one by one start with the thumb on your
right hand and finish with the thumb on
your left hand after you've bent all
your fingers exhale through your mouth
and straighten all your fingers one by
one this time start with a thumb on the
left hand repeat these movements at
least ten times make sure you bend and
straighten each finger thoroughly and
completely exercise number four for this
exercise you'll need four walnuts oh
wait go get the walnuts all right you
can replace walnuts with any other nuts
big enough to assist you haha
like me take a walnut and start to roll
it around your left palm while pressing
on it with your right palm you need to
press on the walnut in such a manner
that this movement takes some effort
keep doing this exercise for at least
one minute turn your left hand and start
to roll the nut around the back of this
hand you should still use your right
palm to press on the walnut repeat this
for up to one minute now take two
walnuts in each hand and start to roll
them by using circular motions you
should move the walnuts in your right
hand clockwise and the ones in your left
hand counterclockwise try to do this for
at least one minute these are the most
popular exercises with nuts they're
nutty exercises rolling motions
calm down nervous tension reduce anxiety
and relief feelings of dissatisfaction
most importantly they prevent the aging
of your brain and promote longevity when
the brain ages your memory attention
span and concentration weaken luckily
this finger workout can help you deal
with this problem the following
exercises will help you improve your
memory exercise number five
first of all tightly press together the
finger tips of your thumb and index
finger on your right hand you should
slightly curve the uppermost part of
your index finger repeat the same
movement for your thumb and middle
finger your ring finger and your pinky
one by one repeat this exercise 20 times
for each hand exercise number 6 with the
finger tip of the thumb on your right
hand press down on the bottom of your
right index finger middle finger ring
finger and pinky in turn you should
apply effort to do this exercise after
you repeat this motion 20 times do the
same for your left hand exercise number
7 this exercise will boost your
attention and concentration hold your
left hand in a loose fist the fingers on
your right hand should be straight and
gather together bring the tips of the
fingers on your right hand toward the
bottom of the pinky on your left hand
after that switch your hands your right
hand should be in a fist and the finger
tips of your left hand should be
touching the bottom of your right hand
pinky repeat these movements for each
hand in turn as quickly and precisely as
you can do at least 10 repetitions for
each hand remember to breathe out
through your mouth every time you switch
hands as you've probably understood your
brain is tightly connected to your hands
since most people have one dominant hand
the brain hemisphere connected to this
hand is more developed than the other
one thus lefties have a more active
right hemisphere and right-handed people
enjoy a more developed left hemisphere
to activate both hemispheres you can try
the following exercises exercise number
eight
try to perform everyday activities like
brushing your teeth eating opening doors
or writing with the help of your
non-dominant hand this can develop new
connections between the two hemispheres
of your brain and encourage the activity
of the less vigorous hemisphere exercise
na start to write by hand more this
activity provides perfect brain
stimulation and improves neural
plasticity specialists recommend this
method to patients who suffer from
memory issues or dementia thus by
keeping let's say a diary you'll improve
your memory and brain function and will
note down important moments of your life
kind of cool huh so do you know any
other ways to keep your brain active and
your mind sharp if so you know what to
do write about these methods in the
comment section down below yeah right
there
also remember to hit the like button
share this video with your friends and
subscribe to this channel to join us on
the bright side of life